alright hey everybody I am Terry
Chadbourne and this is the proto school
weekly call so you'll notice in our
notes for today's call that we have a
bit of a different format and we're
gonna start structuring this call based
on the top-level goals of the proto
school project and so hit hit each of
these goals one at a time and just walk
through anything exciting that people
open or less than exciting you know
exciting how you feel about it that
people have been doing in those areas
but before I forget I just want to call
out that ipfs cam is coming up it's
happening June 27th to 30th in Barcelona
and it'll just actually let me share
this real quick so people can see ipfs
camp is something that maybe I'm
interested of the pro school community
it's specifically about ipfs and I will
just distinguish that from file coin if
you're super interested specifically in
file coin and crypto you won't
I think find a lot of content there
about it but we're looking at all
aspects of ipfs and it's a great
opportunity to spend a few days with
other folks who are really excited about
that technology both learning about it
and kind of shaping the direction of the
project so there'll be some workshops
and hacking sessions there will be a
bunch of new content in some of it in
proto school format some of it not at
that event so registration is open now
and you can see applications closed on
April 26 and do note that this is this
isn't a buy your ticket process this is
an apply explain your interest in the
project and so that the selection
committee has a chance to get to know
you and see what you're interested in
and make sure that you're a good fit and
would get a lot of them all at the event
so do you mention things like your
community involvement if you're leading
a Provo school chapter and you apply to
camp
do you include that when you apply and
I'm not directly involved in planning
this but does anyone have questions I
can try to help with if I do know the
answers there are scholarships available
by the way and that process for applying
for a scholarship is built into the
normal application form so just pop back
over to our notes on the content
development front which is where we'll
start actually let me just pull up
really quickly our pull up my road map
for you just so you can see where I'm
getting these topics from so the proto
school road map was published in late
March or early April I think and it has
a sense of our guiding principles and
also these top-level goals that we're
going to talk through and as you see ok
ours come out for each order you'll see
that they're aligned with these goals so
one is content development making sure
that we're creating an increasing range
of tutorial content from across multiple
projects at the moment that will stay
heavily ipfs and so we have a good body
of work there but growing the work that
we have and one of the things we
acknowledge is that it's hard for local
chapters leaders right now because
they're running out of content quite
quickly so it's challenging to do their
chapter events in the way that we intend
so that's a real top priority in this
corner and then learner experience you
can also think of as UX within the proto
school tutorials so making improvements
to the website structure and giving
people the things they need to have a
positive experience online to track
their progress as they go along all of
that UX stuff we can do to make the
platform better and then
immunity growth is all about making sure
that chapter leaders have what they need
to succeed that were both gaining new
chapters and making the experience
better for chapter leaders and the
members of those chapters and then
project management is really just
structural stuff to position the project
for growth so kind of odds and ends
organizational stuff for the most part
and so if you review more detailed stuff
that's in our roadmap you'll see it kind
of broken out into those sections and
that's why we're gonna give a shot at
structuring our meeting in that same way
moving forward and we can always change
the plan if we don't like the flow of
this but on the content development
front today I personally have been
spending time with help from do go on
building out a tutorial on the mutable
file system which is the next kind of
top priority for a content I have been
stalled out for a bit but I'm feeling
like I'm in a much better place now so
we have lessons on the right command and
at last and um kind of moving on from
there and do go as we'll see in a minute
has built a bunch of functionality
that's really gonna help me make those
lessons as effective as they can be so
that one's coming soon I'm about to pull
it out into an APR um and then learn
their experience let me hand over to you
do go if there's anything you want to
show us feel free to pull up a screen
share so I'm just so
a bunch of work that I did when I
started working on school two weeks ago
is I restructured the project situation
componentize some of the stuff before
school to help chapter leaders and
people who want to tutorials now it's
easier to to submit a new tutorial you
had to do sample and you have to add a
line of HTML to a lot of files now you
almost just have to to put everything in
a JSON file and everything will
magically appears but we were working on
a rhythmic the main rate me a proto
school and everything is written down
there another thing that I've been
working on yes we can and this is a
preview of yeah I have to use this
because there's no lessons that are
using this functionality so so basically
when you have an external error you you
couldn't catch that error and translate
it to something meaningful to the users
so if ideas for example have any error
that error it will be absolute it's not
gonna happen because I already have
[Music]
I'm sorry because I was working on some
rents maybe I did seven well they did
something it's not something I really
want to show this but let coding this is
just time to try one more time so that
doesn't work I'll just show therefore
request that has pictures in it I can
also try it from mine if you so as you
can see this is not the right one the
right answer but now we have a
meaningful message saying we have a
small tip that that's the user from
what's missing in the solution
previously this is an error that comes
from ipfs previously this wasn't the
text activity you just see an error that
it's a bit cryptic for users who aren't
used like the FS so now we can over we
can catch errors and override them and
just show users the message so that's
pretty cool for new tutorials
another thing is on some lessons right
now in the proto school there's no
lessons with it but the lessons of em FS
factories work you know and sometimes
she wanted you to see for example the
files that were that are on the ipfs
repo the way to do that basically you
had to open the dev tools and we were
some stuff and you would see the lobster
that's not very user friendly because
the user has to open their netbooks
maybe there's some users that don't even
know what tools are on how to open them
so right now we're putting that directly
on the UI so when you press you don't
need to miss a lesson but when the
tutorial Otto wants to show something
now you just press another problem to
her to the lesson that's that will do it
this is a work in progress but that will
do it I need to really prove it just
adds another option and you can have an
additional step showing what you want
you can override this to the description
or this is optional you can but then you
can see you can block whatever you want
or you can thing that you you think it's
minute for the user so that's another
feature that we added this one it's not
much to see that the way Diogo
implemented it it's it doesn't have to
look exactly the same things that you
would be log into the console you can
control whether it's the results of an
LS in your ipfs or something else in the
code so if there were some kind of or
going on behind the scenes that was
getting console logs and you had in the
current system you have the user open
the console to see the thing you want
them to see and they might see something
else going weirdly also this is a really
cool improvement from my perspective and
it's something that there's at least one
existing lesson that we should go back
and fix I think it might be in the blog
series where we're asking people to like
look at us I see I see before and after
some things we should see if it's
possible to apply this there but it's
gonna be really cool both of these
features yeah and this way we can we
have a lot more control of what we want
the user to see as you said sometimes
your local console out and nobody's
perfect oh so there will be a bunch of
errors
and what make things pretty good this is
so that's it on my end it has have any
questions great one thing that that I'm
a little worried about so each time that
you try to execute the code to see if it
works you have to spin up and wait for
the unready for a new idea right is that
going to get kind of slow sometimes or
like have we had seen any issues were
like that's just happening too fast for
us to really keep up I'm not sure on my
end it hasn't been super slow but yes
sometimes there's a few seconds of delay
so maybe we'll just have to put a little
spinner because right now I don't think
there's any indication that work is
being are you asking if that thing runs
extra times because of this feature it's
still like it's still just in the same
validate function so it's still only
like on one click of the submit button
it's still creating one new ipfs
instance and then printing no no no no
so it's I thought like checking it as
you were typing right no it's just the
logging stuff okay okay I think I'm miss
under I think I misinterpreted what it
was doing because it said that you hit a
success condition before you had
actually submitted it so no no I that's
the rest of me it would show the success
yeah yeah I know we were just doing it
so fast that it looked like it was as
you type okay I was like I was really
excited for a second that we're just
doing it as you type but I was like oh
sweet that feature it was studying past
or something and then we do have that
that new section that shows the results
if you hit read
set code that will disappear it will
clear out the little like log property
that you've added to output test so that
that section won't show if you go back
it would say something different we
could also just as you type potentially
um check if it's valid JavaScript
because like while you're typing you're
often in a state where it's not even
valid yet like the syntax is off so we
could sort of like either gray out the
button or do something that showed that
like oh you need to make a change before
you can actually submit this so that we
don't like have people submitting code
that like actually just doesn't work at
all sit we want the syntax errors to
show thank you yeah yeah it could it
could like show this it could show the
syntax error like if you hit submit or
if you waited for a little while or
something you don't want it to say it
like constantly as you type because like
as you're typing there will be invalid
syntax right actually wait
so we're embedding the Visual Studio
code editor there's definitely hooks in
there to like do things in the line and
to change the syntax if things are not
working so we could we could potentially
just like pull a plug-in or something
and maybe have that work as you type I
don't know we should look into that and
I like I'll log in issue to look into it
and yeah this stuff is not really cool
you know thank you for all your work on
it and then as you know as yoga makes
all of these changes he's also updating
the instructions for people who are
building tutorials so those are
improving as you go that's in the readme
of the proto Schools I get hub Jeff IO
repo
and the other feature you saw there in
passing was that file upload box which
is something that we Michael built and
just it ended up getting that one got
merged right the file upload exists
finally is available the author's
because we separated out from the work
that's going on to build the MF s
tutorial so thanks to Michael for
getting that ball rolling on that as
well
um okay anything else anyone has on
learner experience
okay um so community growth it's
possible I already mentioned this last
week I lost track of time there are new
chapters in haengju which I'm sure I'm
mispronouncing and Taipei's awesome and
we have a request in from Nairobi Kenya
so I'm working on setting up a chapter
there any exciting updates from the
Denver chapter that you wanted to share
Dan I'd say that now I'm seeing protocol
getting some more robust tutorials built
I'm getting excited to host another
couple meetups around it yeah that's
really eliminated which is why we're
trying to focus so hard on that at the
moment
I also saw just recently a listing for
what I think is the first meeting of the
Seattle Chapter and they're gonna work
through all of the existing tutorials in
that so that's posted I think I just
retweeted it on Twitter if anyone's in
that area and wants to check that out um
on the project management front the
improvements that we're making as we go
for tutorial authors making the process
I consider that kind of a key piece of
structuring for future growth because
them the easier we make it to the old a
tutorial the bigger community we can
have supporting that um that's it for
kind of walking through based on our top
level goals does anyone have other
protocol updates they wanted to share
I did a quick question what do we think
the timeline is for the file upload one
to be merged entirely I know that the
component was merged but like the actual
tutorial it's a great question I appear
to be very bad at predicting how long
things take and how much time I have to
work on them I think the problem right
now is not things taking a long time
it's just me working on off like you had
other stuff like that mixed in so I'm
definitely I definitely feel much more
unblocked so I'm hoping within the next
couple of weeks oh I don't want to
specifically promise that like that long
to to having I think a first draft and
then making sure I have some some good
feedback and hyoga has been really
helpful with helping out with like
validation and caching he's caught
things in old so lessons that I've gone
for months thinking the validation was
right like and it'll alert me that it's
always catching on the wrong conditional
I'll be like no it's always catching on
the right one
oh no I've just been answering the
question wrong for months never mind so
it's definitely helpful having having
more eyes on things but it is we're
moving along
I feel very unblocked on that now that
we have more of a clear focus and the
ability like once hopefully within you
know today or tomorrow I hope we'll get
merged that functionality to let you see
things in the in the UI itself which
will be a really big help for just
giving some immediate feedback for you
know the change that you made an M FS
now your directory looks like this it's
gonna be particularly useful there and
then we'll just see as we go like I
don't I haven't I don't think I've
gotten far enough to see how that would
print if I do have like nested sub
directories and stuff in them so it may
be that it'll be super clear just from
that and all I'll need to do is an LS to
print or it may be that I have to have
people like dig down and do the exercise
but I like looking and there's subfolder
and pretty not so it's just that kind of
stuff I'm in the process of
learning and FS commands as I go but I'm
also open to help as more people want to
throw their through their hands in on
the content of that one I'm open to that
too
do you have something are you just
curious or is there something you're
about to work on that you're that I'm
blocking no no I'm mainly curious and
because like we I think that when it's
ready we should message it to the other
chapters that have already especially
the ones that are want already that they
know that they're yeah anything like I
know that it was blocked for quite a
while and that like we keep finding like
new improvement that we want to make to
proto school for that tutorial so I was
kind of wondering like where we are in
that cycle and it seems like we're we're
at the the tail end event where like all
these improvements that we've wanted to
make are now like yeah and I'm sure
we'll keep like we'll keep thinking of
things as we go but the fact that I have
gyoko helping is really like it's it's a
big improvement and just the fact of
kind of focusing in on in the fast
versus the other version is helpful
although the hugo is working on it okay
or that will unblock the ability to I
don't even remember what our problem is
with the other versions not being able
to use format blogs blogs when it's not
in the fest or something like that
so that one will get one block soon but
but I feel like I have a more clear
focus now so both that and getting more
comfortable with the validation all that
stuff is um is making things move faster
correct me if I'm wrong but this
tutorial is just going to be MSS right
and then we're I think by IPSS camp we
want to have another one for the
document but that's a separate tutorial
right so I do think we still want to
build a separate tutorial on to do to do
with files what we've talked about good
tag for example it but yes it would be a
separate tutorial okay it was just
something that we had some disagreement
on was the order in which to present
right Thanks
building em FS as though it's the easier
one the other suggestion I should
mention that came up recently in a
conversation Michael and I were having
with one of our Seattle chapter leaders
who's been giving us some awesome UX
feedback recently is that the thing
we're currently having there is like the
most beginner content the one that has
no code at all that walks through like
location addressing versus content
addressing and all of those concepts it
gets much harder and much less clear why
it's in there when we get to the part
about like Merkel tags so we're now
thinking of this isn't like a top urgent
priority but splitting that out so the
stuff that's more like content and
location addressing stays as its own
thing but probably has a different name
on the tutorial and then this stuff
that's more merkel tag gets put into a
new thing or put into the beginning of
one of the other tag related lessons and
then we should think michael about
whether i mean i think that like you
probably want it to be its own little
page or lesson or something because you
want people to read it before the tag
tutorials but also before this new
tutorial that's going to be about the
underlying file API it's like not in the
because it's you you want to know that
for that to like if you're explaining
like how the file is actually get turned
into the structures and you need to
don't but you don't need to that's for
MSS right like the point of M FS right
and I think I'll probably try to lean on
you a little bit again Michael when we
get to splitting those out and trying to
make it super clear why people should
care about this I found so in that same
trail I don't think you've responded to
it yet but I added a note because I saw
a talk by Tara Mansell that gave me like
one extra clue about that that might
have been important you can tell me
whether it was or not so that's
something we can think about how we want
to structure the other thing I was going
to say that we should think about is we
had some debate when I joined about
whether those Tag lessons should be
labeled as
uh sir I plz I don't know if that's
something that we should be reassessing
or not they could they should remain
IPSS as long as they use the IP FS dag
API okay like we have a different set of
API s and I feel D for creators and like
eventually some of that will get merged
into TFS and potentially like there is a
background discussion about like do we
need the dag API and IDs s and if that
happens then we would definitely just
like chain to a lesson to use the IPA
API is a minute yeah so we leave them
inside FS for now and Diogo s particles
restructuring did something that will
make it easier as we do add content from
new projects to just you know pull in a
little picture ipfs logo pick the IPL do
you ago those kinds of things yeah one
quick note on the turn ansel thing so
like the content industry instructors
have like a lot of differences and
advantages and it's always a struggle to
figure out like which parts of it are
necessary to teach people in order to
understand the value of like the next
thing that we're teaching and like
teasing that apart is just it's just
going to be a little bit difficult um so
yeah like I mean obviously what Tara
said is true I think the the question
really is like is that important
information for understanding the value
of a particular API or lesson and like
why that is interesting and and that's
the thing I don't have a clear answer on
yeah and one thing we can do is at the
beginning of an of a new tutorial and no
intermediate or advanced tutorial we can
say as we learned in X introductory
thing blank is true which where we left
off with blank not getting super details
about why we care maybe and then and in
the context of why it matters because
see you know like we can add a little
bit more context in a way that it flows
into the more this specific more
advanced lesson I'm kind of refresh on
why we care about the stuff that we
learned earlier and we also have new
ways to kind of work
we have some of the groundwork laid out
to chunk things into courses now when we
get let me have enough that we want to
do that so with specific orders at the
moment it's just like what order that'll
appear on this screen but and the other
updates Stan did you have anything else
you want to shut about I actually do
want to ask and you forgive me if I
haven't seen it yet but one thing I
think it'd be really cool now that we
have this ability to upload files into
play with the NFS would it be possible
to also integrate some way that we can
request pinning on some of the community
is servers that are out there the
gateways such that some of this content
that we're playing with who could
potentially now be accessed outside of
the tutorial so in giving the the
learner a sense of like what you're
doing there in the sense that like
you're requesting somebody else to hold
this data for you out on the network and
why don't you go to a different browser
and see if that content exists you know
okay so I might be lying
so Michael are you go is it true that
right now when you make this ipfs
instance and put the stuff in it that
it's ending up like when we go to IPL d
Explorer the fact that we're able to use
that does that mean that it's on the
ipfs gateway so it's that word so that
there's there's two things going on
right like one is like is the data
available to network and to like have
you asked them but have you had somebody
else pin it so that stays up when you're
saying yeah like you're thinking about
the IP of the Explorer is that that
works unless you were to close the tab
for protocol that like had your day
right so yeah and really cool to see is
like that we could show that on request
because there are the community pinning
services that I know of that somebody
else will pin this for you and hold it
and you can look at it somewhere else at
least the Intel it's garbage budget
wherever you know so we don't have a
pinning service that isn't authenticated
right now because obviously like you're
paying to stalker
so that that I think would be the
blocker there okay we just a problem
don't have that I think that like if we
had a really easy to use
pinning service authenticated or not we
could potentially integrate it in the
ability Explorer or create a version of
I feel the Explorer where you would
literally like to go say oh hey look at
this let Billy Explorer
oh hey also here's a button to end it
indefinitely in service acts and we
could potentially even add several of
the services I don't know like like that
would be up to that to the Explorer team
yeah that makes sense
one thing though I know that it's
confusing to people who are generally
coming on is that it is only locally
storage stored and as well as that in
browser it's only in your cache so
that's gonna get ya herbage immediately
so people are confused to like wait I
thought this was like a distributed file
system like why is it gone immediately
yeah yeah and and also because of the
way that we do we create like an
ephemeral RPF essence and then we kill
it even if you cleaned it and in
protocool it wouldn't actually pin it
like like that the hole is still getting
blown away so yeah I think that like we
should probably start a a thread in
front of school that is just like a
lesson on pinning and you decide what
that lesson would look like right it's
like it may just be text for now about
like how pinning works and why that's
important and here's some services yeah
and then at some point in the future
maybe we can do like a much better more
integrated tutorial right so Kay and
also giving a sense to the user of that
idea that it is local only unless
somebody else picks this up and talking
through like what that is and
potentially alluding to like well file
coin is a way that you could pay people
to do this for you kind of thing you
know I mean right so when we were at our
planning meetings in Lisbon and Diego
and Ali and I were doing a little bit of
prep work for one of the top secret work
shots I P FS skip and is about like we
neither do go nor I are responsible for
building us
and it may or may not end up you know
some part of it might end up in protocol
and some might not but they are planning
content that is about this sort of like
permanence misperceptions of permanence
pinning like is this is that an accurate
description he'll go put the topic of
that thing was that we were talking
about related and in like pinyin is
certainly like a concept than in my mind
become fairly soon in our content as far
as I know pinning is like between me
being able to share a file and me being
able to host a website it's like so
somewhere in between that and the
progression of things I would need to
learn yeah I mean so at the very least
once that content is built well
absolutely the link to at the end of the
tutorial like at the very least even if
we don't have an interaction yeah even
if it ends up somewhere other than proto
school that it's hosted and that's the
thing that we're going to continue to
run into I don't always understand that
the depths of the technical interest
Kasese of what we can do and can't do
with infertile school versus and other
platforms right so like right now and
things that require the command-line
we're not doing it for school and we've
made it a decision not to focus on that
right now
but one of the features that we have in
mind to build out is like Michael said
like a page at the end of a tutorial at
the end of every tutorial it's like
here's other stuff that's related that
you could learn in these other formats
or where issues you could be helping
with now we have these skills that kind
of stuff so that we have a way to link
out to other resources and doing a
better job of looking at the current
documentation about ipfs and pushing
people into proto school for relevant
content all of that linking will also
help when we do encounter a topic where
purposefully is the right place to teach
it yeah makes sense
so Terrell hitting is something we can
never do or not I'm not the answer but
yeah I like that that effectively at the
end you have something that in my mind I
might put the analogy of like a
launching pad be like well you learn
this stuff now go out and prosper in the
world with the tools you've learned here
some links okay
Michael can you do me a favor because I
started typing too late will you go into
the notes and the discussion highlights
and write more about this pending
conversation where I started it and
write more and more accurately please
thank you I forgot to request a
note-taker
I'm only allowed to type 45 minutes out
of every hour now it's very exciting
limitation for a coder so see how that
goes anything else people want to chat
about
all right cool um thanks everyone for
coming we ran a little over but great
discussion as always and hopefully we'll
see y'all next week thanks everybody
okay okay